Announcing openAPL Version 0 (an ALPHA release)
-----------------------------------------------
A Programming Language (APL) provides the user with powerful tools
for manipulating arrays of numbers.  APL uses a special character set
to represent many of its primitive functions so that complex
operations may be performed using very terse expressions.  The APL
character set has been a major barrier to APL acceptance during the
ASCII era - but not any more!  GNU/Linux and X11 provide excellent font
support, this has enabled APL to be made available to owners of 
inexpensive hardware.  

openAPL is a GPLed open source version of APL based on the older
freely available apl\11.  openAPL has been developed and tested on the
Linux console and ported successfully to XFree86 and X11 under SunOS.
In addition, methods have been developed for printing the character
set on Ghostscript and Epson(TM) compatible printers.

ALPHA Trial
-----------
This early release is targeted at people who have already used APL.
No tutorial or reference material on APL is provided, however suitable
material is freely available and should appear with the package by the
time that openAPL goes BETA.  The main purpose of the ALPHA trial is
to find and remove bugs claimed to exist in the underlying apl\11
source code.

Getting Started
---------------
The source will be available on sunsite (see the LSM below).  In
addition to openAPL-0.0.tar.gz, you may need some of the following: 
1. If you intend to run openAPL under X11, download a copy of the
source code for rxvt.
2. If you want to print APL functions on a Postscript(TM) compatible
printer, get a copy of a2gs (by the way, a2ps will not do).
3. If you want to print APL functions on an Epson(TM) or compatible
printer, get a copy of fprint, (ie fontprint).

Instructions for compilation of apl\11 and a custom version of rxvt
will be found after unzipping and untaring the package.

Linux Software Map (LSM)
------------------------
Begin3
Title:          openAPL
Version:        0.0
Entered-date:   25 November 1998
Description:    A Programming Language (APL) allows the user
		to manipulate multi-dimensional arrays through
		a grammar that uses special character symbols
		to represent functions and operators.  openAPL
		is a package that provides the special APL font
		plus some enhancements for APL\11 - a very old
		version of APL.  Both the Linux console and X11
		can be used to host this font.
		This is an ALPHA version.
Keywords:       apl APL array vector matrix
Author:         
Maintained-by:  see the Support file 
Primary-site:	sunsite.unc.edu /pub/Linux/devel/lang/apl
		168k openapl-0.0.tgz
Alternate-site: 
Original-site:  
Platforms:      Linux console - requires kbd package
		X11 - requires specially compiled rxvt 
		Postscript printer - requires a2gs
		Epson printer - requires fontprint
Copying-policy: GPL
End


Copyright
---------
openAPL, Copyright (C) Branko Bratkovic 1998
openAPL is free software and is covered by the GNU General
Public License.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  

