)clear        
This command is used to completely initialize an APL workspace. 
Usually when APL is started, it will print: "clear ws".  This 
means that no internal variables or functions are defined.  
Sometimes, it is desirable to completely erase everything, and 
this command serves that purpose.  To let you know that 
everything has been erased, APL will output the message "clear ws".  
                        
)erase list   
This command is handy when it is desirable to get rid of parts 
of a workspace without using ")clear" to eliminate all of it.  A 
list of function and variable names (separated by spaces or tabs)
may be specified.  The named functions and variables will be deleted 
from the internal workspace.  The remainder of the workspace will 
not be affected.  
                        
)save xxx     
This command causes APL to write its internal workspace into a UNIX 
file.  This allows the current session to be resumed at a later time.
If the save is successful, APL will output the date and time.  
This command is unavailable during SandBox mode.
                        
)load xxx     
This command is used to tell APL to load the UNIX file "xxx" into 
APL as a workspace.  After the file is loaded, APL's internal 
workspace will be the same as it was when the workspace file was 
saved with ")save", and that previous APL session may be resumed.  
If the workspace file exists and is successfully loaded, APL will
print the time and date that the workspace was last saved.  
                        
)copy xxx     
This command instructs APL to locate the UNIX file "xxx" and load 
it into its internal workspace, similar to the ")load" command.  The 
difference between ")load" and ")copy" is that ")load" will replace 
the current internal workspace with the one being read in, while 
")copy" merges the current internal workspace with the one being 
read in.  Functions and variables which are loaded from the file take 
precedence over functions and variables of the same name existing 
already in the internal workspace.  
                        
)off          
Terminate the APL session.  

)continue     
")continue" is a combination of the ")save" and ")off" commands.  
The internal workspace is saved in a file named "continue", and then 
APL is terminated.  Since APL will by default look for the file 
"continue" in the current directory when it is next run, this provides a
convenient method of suspending and resuming an APL session.  

)fns          
This command causes APL to list the names of all of the functions 
which are defined in its internal workspace.  

)vars         
This command causes APL to list the names of all of the variables 
which are defined in its internal workspace.  

)lib          
This command is similar to the UNIX "ls".  It causes APL to list the 
names of all of the UNIX files in the current directory.  Long 
file names tend to result in ugly output. Names are truncated to 
14 characters and don't always line up nicely in columns.  

)read xxx     
At times it is desirable to read a function which is stored in 
an ASCII file into the internal workspace without editing it.  The 
")read" command causes APL to read the file named "xxx" into 
the workspace as a function.  Note that ")read" and ")load" 
are NOT the same thing.  ")load" reads a complete new workspace
into APL from a workspace-format file, while ")read" reads a function 
from an ASCII file and adds it to the current workspace.  

)write xxx    
This command is the complement of ")read".  It takes the function 
"xxx" from the current workspace and writes it to an ASCII file named 
"xxx".  This is useful for writing functions which will be ")read" 
later into other workspaces or which will be printed on the line printer. 
This command is unavailable during SandBox mode.

)edit xxx     
Invoke the editor on the UNIX file named "xxx", and when the editing 
is complete, read that file into the workspace.  
This command is unavailable during SandBox mode.

)drop list    
This command performs the same function as UNIX "rm".  The names of 
the files to be deleted should be separated by spaces or tabs.
The files may be APL workspaces, ASCII files, or any other type of file.  
This command is unavailable during SandBox mode.

)trace        
This command turns on APL's internal "trace" mode.  When tracing is 
turned on, APL will report the function name and line number of 
each line in every function executed.  Thus, the flow of execution 
from the start to the end of a run can be followed.  

)untrace      
This command turns off "trace" mode.  

)si           
This command is useful when something goes wrong.  When an error 
occurs, the function that was executing is "suspended".  The ")si" 
command causes APL to print a traceback of the suspended functions.  
Each function is listed, in the reverse order that it was called.  The 
current line number for each function is also printed.  Functions 
followed by an asterisk ("*") were suspended due to an error; these 
were called by functions listed on the following lines whose names 
are not followed by an asterisk.  

)sic        
This command is used to clear the state indicator.  All suspended 
functions are reset.  APL returns to the global level.  

)shell        
This command is useful when it is desired to escape from the APL
environment temporarily without having to save the current internal 
workspace, exit APL, and later re-enter APL and reload the workspace.
")shell" invokes the UNIX shell indicated by the SHELL environment 
variable.  If SHELL is not defined, the shell defaults to "/bin/sh".  
When you exit the shell, you return to APL.  
This command is unavailable during SandBox mode.

)list xxx     
This command causes APL to print out the function named "xxxx".  
This is very handy for looking at a function without having to use 
the editor -- especially when an error has occurred and you want to 
look at a function without disturbing the state indicator.  

)prws         
This command causes APL to print the contents of the workspace in a 
readable format.  Nonscalar variables are displayed along with 
their dimensions; functions are displayed as via the ")list" system 
command.  

)debug        
This command invokes "debug mode."  In this mode, every action which 
APL takes is logged on the terminal.  This mode is excellent for 
generating reams of hopelessly cryptic output and exists only to 
facilitate APL development.  It is not intended for general use.  Debug 
mode can be turned off by issuing the ")debug" system command a 
second time.  

)code fn      
This command causes APL to print the compiled internal code for 
the function "fn".  This is also intended for APL system development 
and not for general use.  

)memory       
The result of this command is a report on current dynamic memory 
allocation.  

)license
As recommended by the GNU General Public License (GPL), this command
will display the copyright notice and a pointer to the GPL. 

)width N
Set the terminal width to N characters.
